packages/app-content-pages/README.md, before:

# Zooniverse Front End - Content Pages

A [Next.js](https://github.com/zeit/next.js) app for handling the content pages.

## Ops

- [Jenkins](https://jenkins.zooniverse.org/job/Zooniverse%20GitHub/job/front-end-monorepo/)
- [New Relic](https://rpm.newrelic.com/accounts/23619/applications/319037799)

## Getting started

This package should be cloned as part of the [front-end-monorepo](https://github.com/zooniverse/front-end-monorepo).

You'll need to create a `.env` file containing the space ID and access token for Contentful:

```sh
cp env-default .env
```

To get the credentials, go to https://app.contentful.com/spaces/jt90kyhvp0qv/api/keys (login credentials are in Passbolt), and copy the Space ID and Content Delivery API token from "Testing".

## Running in development

### Docker

- `docker-compose up` to run a dev server on http://localhost:3000 using `yarn dev`. The `--build` flag can be used to build the container. This builds and runs a local image which matches the Jenkins build except for running behind a proxy.
- `docker-compose down` to stop the dev server.
- `docker-compose run --rm content-pages test` to run the tests.

### Node
```sh
yarn dev
```

Starts a development server on port 3000 by default.

**Note:** `PANOPTES_ENV` is set to `production` when running `npm run dev`. This is so the project avatars for publications can be fetched from the production API. If `PANOPTES_ENV` is set to anything else, the fallback image will show.


```sh
yarn storybook
```

Starts a Storybook server on port 9001 by default.

## Running in production

### Docker

- `docker-compose run --rm content-pages start` to run a webpack production build on http://localhost:3000 using `yarn start`. The `--build` flag can be used to build the container. This builds and runs a local image which matches the Jenkins build except for running behind a proxy.

### Node
```sh
yarn build
yarn start
```

Next.js [treats the build and serve tasks as separate steps](https://github.com/zeit/next.js/#production-deployment) when running in production.

The production server is started on port 3000 by default.

### Tests

```sh
npm run test
```

See [Testing](#testing) for more details.

## <a name="testing"></a> Testing

Tests are run by [Mocha](https://mochajs.org/), using the [BDD](https://mochajs.org/#bdd) interface.

Assertions are provided by the [Chai](http://www.chaijs.com/) assertion library.

### Configuration

The following environment variables are available:

- `DEFAULT_MAX_AGE` (int, default: 60) - default max age for asset caching in seconds
- `ENABLE_CACHE_CONTROL` (boolean, default: false) - toggle setting of the `cache-control` `max-age` header
- `JS_MAX_AGE` (int, default: 31536000) - default max age for `.js` asset caching in seconds

Commit message:

Install @next/bundle-analyzer - Add `@next/bundle-analyzer` to both NextJS apps. - Add `yarn analyse` to generate bundle size reports for an app.

packages/app-content-pages/README.md, after:

# Zooniverse Front End - Content Pages

A [Next.js](https://github.com/zeit/next.js) app for handling the content pages.

## Ops

- [Jenkins](https://jenkins.zooniverse.org/job/Zooniverse%20GitHub/job/front-end-monorepo/)
- [New Relic](https://rpm.newrelic.com/accounts/23619/applications/319037799)

## Getting started

This package should be cloned as part of the [front-end-monorepo](https://github.com/zooniverse/front-end-monorepo).

You'll need to create a `.env` file containing the space ID and access token for Contentful:

```sh
cp env-default .env
```

To get the credentials, go to https://app.contentful.com/spaces/jt90kyhvp0qv/api/keys (login credentials are in Passbolt), and copy the Space ID and Content Delivery API token from "Testing".

## Running in development

### Docker

- `docker-compose up` to run a dev server on http://localhost:3000 using `yarn dev`. The `--build` flag can be used to build the container. This builds and runs a local image which matches the Jenkins build except for running behind a proxy.
- `docker-compose down` to stop the dev server.
- `docker-compose run --rm content-pages test` to run the tests.

### Node
```sh
yarn dev
```

Starts a development server on port 3000 by default.

**Note:** `PANOPTES_ENV` is set to `production` when running `npm run dev`. This is so the project avatars for publications can be fetched from the production API. If `PANOPTES_ENV` is set to anything else, the fallback image will show.


```sh
yarn storybook
```

Starts a Storybook server on port 9001 by default.

### Bundle Analyser
```sh
yarn analyse
```

Run a build with [`@next/bundle-analyzer`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@next/bundle-analyzer) enabled. It generates two reports on bundle sizes: the browser bundle and the server bundle.

## Running in production

### Docker

- `docker-compose run --rm content-pages start` to run a webpack production build on http://localhost:3000 using `yarn start`. The `--build` flag can be used to build the container. This builds and runs a local image which matches the Jenkins build except for running behind a proxy.

### Node
```sh
yarn build
yarn start
```

Next.js [treats the build and serve tasks as separate steps](https://github.com/zeit/next.js/#production-deployment) when running in production.

The production server is started on port 3000 by default.

### Tests

```sh
npm run test
```

See [Testing](#testing) for more details.

## <a name="testing"></a> Testing

Tests are run by [Mocha](https://mochajs.org/), using the [BDD](https://mochajs.org/#bdd) interface.

Assertions are provided by the [Chai](http://www.chaijs.com/) assertion library.

### Configuration

The following environment variables are available:

- `DEFAULT_MAX_AGE` (int, default: 60) - default max age for asset caching in seconds
- `ENABLE_CACHE_CONTROL` (boolean, default: false) - toggle setting of the `cache-control` `max-age` header
- `JS_MAX_AGE` (int, default: 31536000) - default max age for `.js` asset caching in seconds
