README.md, before:

# Zooniverse Front-End Monorepo

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/zooniverse/front-end-monorepo.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/zooniverse/front-end-monorepo)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/zooniverse/front-end-monorepo/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/zooniverse/front-end-monorepo?branch=master)
[![pullreminders](https://pullreminders.com/badge.svg)](https://pullreminders.com?ref=badge)

[![lerna](https://img.shields.io/badge/maintained%20with-lerna-cc00ff.svg)](https://lernajs.io/)
[![Licensed under Apache 2.0](https://img.shields.io/github/license/zooniverse/front-end-monorepo.svg)](https://github.com/zooniverse/front-end-monorepo/blob/master/LICENSE.md)
![Contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/zooniverse/front-end-monorepo.svg)

️Take a look at [our roadmap](https://trello.com/b/yg0r4dG5/front-end-rebuild-roadmap)! 🛣️

---

**Table of Contents**

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Monowhat?](#monowhat)
- [Getting started](#getting-started)
- [Helpful Guides](#helpful-guides)
- [Packages](#packages)
- [Helpers](#helpers)
- [Conventions](#conventions)
 - [NPM](#npm)
 - [Packages directory](#packages-directory)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
- [License](#license)

## Requirements

- [Browser support](docs/arch/adr-3.md)
- Node 16
- Git
- Yarn

Node, git, and yarn can be installed through [homebrew](https://brew.sh/) on MacOS. If you need to support more than one version of node at the same time, you can consider installing it though [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) instead of homebrew

## Monowhat?

This monorepo is managed with [Yarn Workspaces](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/workspaces/).

Yarn Workspaces allow us to maintain package modularity for javascript projects that have interdependency. Organizationally, they allows us to track issues, pull requests, and progress for all related packages in one place.

## Getting started

### Docker
You can run the code locally in Docker, which avoids needing to install Node or yarn.

```sh
git clone git@github.com:zooniverse/front-end-monorepo.git
cd front-end-monorepo
docker-compose build
```

`docker-compose up` runs local production builds of the project app at http://localhost:3000 and the content pages app at http://localhost:3001

`docker-compose down` stops the running container.

`docker-compose run --rm shell` runs an interactive shell on the Docker image.

Development environments for individual packages can be run from the package directories. For example:
```sh
cd packages/app-project
docker-compose up
````
to run a develeopment server for the project app.

### With Node and yarn
Alternatively, you can install Node 14 and yarn and build the monorepo packages.

```sh
git clone git@github.com:zooniverse/front-end-monorepo.git
cd front-end-monorepo
yarn bootstrap
```

The `bootstrap` script will install the dependencies and build any local packages used as dependencies.

## Helpful Guides

- [Yarn docs](https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs)

## Packages

See each package's folder for more specific documentation.

| package name | folder | description |
|---|---|---|
| **@zooniverse/async-states** | `packages/lib-async-states` | Frozen object of async states to use in data stores |
| **@zooniverse/classifier** | `packages/lib-classifier` | Classifier view components and state which can be exported modularly or altogether as a working classifier |
| **@zooniverse/fe-content-pages** | `packages/app-content-pages` | Server-side rendered application for documentation / info pages, such as Publications. |
| **@zooniverse/fe-project** | `packages/app-project` | Server-side rendered application for a project (anything at `/projects/owner/display_name`) |
| **@zooniverse/grommet-theme** | `packages/lib-grommet-theme` | The style definitions for a Zooniverse theme to use with Grommet |
| **@zooniverse/panoptes-js** | `packages/lib-panoptes-js` | Panoptes API javascript client. Functional HTTP request helpers built on top of superagent |
| **@zooniverse/react-components** | `packages/lib-react-components` | A set of Zooniverse-specific React components, built using Grommet |

## Conventions

### NPM

All packages built from this monorepo should be _scoped_ to `zooniverse`, e.g. `grommet-theme` becomes `@zooniverse/grommet-theme`.

### `packages` directory

Libraries for publishing to NPM should have their directory names prefixed with `lib-`, e.g. `/grommet-theme` becomes `/lib-grommet-theme`.

Apps should have their directory names prefixed with `app-`, e.g. `/project` becomes `/app-project`.

## Deployment

Deploys to production and staging are handled by [Jenkins](https://jenkins.zooniverse.org/job/Zooniverse%20GitHub/job/front-end-monorepo/) using [Docker images](#docker-images).

Deployments to a staging Kubernetes instance that uses Panoptes production are triggered by merges to master. This is used for manual end-to-end behavior testing for new code and design reviews. `https://frontend.preview.zooniverse.org/projects/:project-owner/:project-name/` proxy redirects to the new NextJS app while the rest of sub-domain redirects to PFE. Staging projects can be loaded by adding this query param to the URL: `?env=staging`.

Deployments to a production Kubernetes instance are triggered by committing a `production-release` git tag on master. This can either be done using the git CLI or using the lita deploy command on slack. `https://www.zooniverse.org/projects/:project-owner/:project-name/classify` proxy redirects to the new NextJS app while the rest of the domain redirects to PFE. Currently the only project that is configured to do this is Planet Hunters TESS. Eventually more projects will migrate when they migrate to the new classifier.

More information is available in [ADR 12](docs/arch/adr-12.md) and [ADR 17](docs/arch/adr-17.md)

### Environment variables

- `PANOPTES_ENV`: sets which Panoptes API endpoint to use.
  - `production` will use `https://www.zooniverse.org/api`
  - `staging` will use `https://panoptes-staging.zooniverse.org/api`.

The yarn build scripts default to production for libraries if `PANOPTES_ENV` is not specified. The apps are always built to the production API.
- `NODE_ENV`: the [webpack build mode](https://webpack.js.org/configuration/mode/) for libraries and the NextJS apps (production, development or undefined.)
- `APP_ENV`: the deployment environment, logged as the [Sentry environment](https://docs.sentry.io/product/sentry-basics/environments/) with errors:
  - `development`: local development on `localhost` or `local.zooniverse.org`.
  - `branch`: PR branch deploys on `fe-project-branch.preview.zooniverse.org`.
  - `staging`: staging on `frontend.preview.zooniverse.org`.
  - `production`: the Zooniverse web site, `www.zooniverse.org`.
- `CONTENTFUL_ACCESS_TOKEN`: access token for the Contentful API. Should be kept secret.
- `CONTENTFUL_SPACE_ID`: space ID for Zooniverse About pages in Contentful. Should be kept secret.
- `NEWRELIC_LICENSE_KEY`:  License key for New Relic logging. Should be kept secret.
- `COMMIT_ID`: the latest git commit hash. Used for versioning Sentry releases and recorded in classification metadata.

### Docker images

- `zooniverse/front-end-monorepo-staging`: Built from the Dockerfile in the root directory. It runs `yarn install` and builds all the libraries and apps from the latest main branch commit.
- `zooniverse/front-end-monorepo-production`: Built from the Dockerfile in the root directory. It runs `yarn install` and builds all the libraries and apps from the `production_release` tag.

### Publishing
When publishing an individual package to [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/), first cd into the repo you would like to deploy (within the packages folder), then:
1. Update changelog and commit
1. `yarn version --major|--minor|--patch --no-git-tag-version` (use the desired semvar here)
1. Update other packages to reference the newly updated package version
    - Ex: If updating lib-react-components to 1.0.0 from 0.7.2
    - lib-classifier should point to the new 1.0.0 version of lib-react-components
1. `git push origin name-of-branch`
1. Merge branch
1. Checkout master, pull for latest
1. Build the package with `yarn build` from the package dir, where available
1. `yarn publish --new-version <version> --access public` from the package dir
    - yarn v1 `publish` command tries to version bump with the publish command. You can specify the exact same version from step two with the `--new-version` variable. 
    - `--access public` publishes the package publicly
    - You can optionally login in to npm prior to this using `npm login` and storing an auth token in an `.npmrc` file

---

## License

Copyright 2018 Zooniverse

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

Commit message:

Update README with better publishing instructions (#4003)
* Update README with newer publishing instructions

* Minor wording fix

README.md, after:

# Zooniverse Front-End Monorepo

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/zooniverse/front-end-monorepo.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/zooniverse/front-end-monorepo)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/zooniverse/front-end-monorepo/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/zooniverse/front-end-monorepo?branch=master)
[![pullreminders](https://pullreminders.com/badge.svg)](https://pullreminders.com?ref=badge)

[![lerna](https://img.shields.io/badge/maintained%20with-lerna-cc00ff.svg)](https://lernajs.io/)
[![Licensed under Apache 2.0](https://img.shields.io/github/license/zooniverse/front-end-monorepo.svg)](https://github.com/zooniverse/front-end-monorepo/blob/master/LICENSE.md)
![Contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/zooniverse/front-end-monorepo.svg)

️Take a look at [our roadmap](https://trello.com/b/yg0r4dG5/front-end-rebuild-roadmap)! 🛣️

---

**Table of Contents**

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Monowhat?](#monowhat)
- [Getting started](#getting-started)
- [Helpful Guides](#helpful-guides)
- [Packages](#packages)
- [Helpers](#helpers)
- [Conventions](#conventions)
 - [NPM](#npm)
 - [Packages directory](#packages-directory)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
- [License](#license)

## Requirements

- [Browser support](docs/arch/adr-3.md)
- Node 16
- Git
- Yarn

Node, git, and yarn can be installed through [homebrew](https://brew.sh/) on MacOS. If you need to support more than one version of node at the same time, you can consider installing it though [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) instead of homebrew

## Monowhat?

This monorepo is managed with [Yarn Workspaces](https://yarnpkg.com/lang/en/docs/workspaces/).

Yarn Workspaces allow us to maintain package modularity for javascript projects that have interdependency. Organizationally, they allows us to track issues, pull requests, and progress for all related packages in one place.

## Getting started

### Docker
You can run the code locally in Docker, which avoids needing to install Node or yarn.

```sh
git clone git@github.com:zooniverse/front-end-monorepo.git
cd front-end-monorepo
docker-compose build
```

`docker-compose up` runs local production builds of the project app at http://localhost:3000 and the content pages app at http://localhost:3001

`docker-compose down` stops the running container.

`docker-compose run --rm shell` runs an interactive shell on the Docker image.

Development environments for individual packages can be run from the package directories. For example:
```sh
cd packages/app-project
docker-compose up
````
to run a develeopment server for the project app.

### With Node and yarn
Alternatively, you can install Node 14 and yarn and build the monorepo packages.

```sh
git clone git@github.com:zooniverse/front-end-monorepo.git
cd front-end-monorepo
yarn bootstrap
```

The `bootstrap` script will install the dependencies and build any local packages used as dependencies.

## Helpful Guides

- [Yarn docs](https://yarnpkg.com/en/docs)

## Packages

See each package's folder for more specific documentation.

| package name | folder | description |
|---|---|---|
| **@zooniverse/async-states** | `packages/lib-async-states` | Frozen object of async states to use in data stores |
| **@zooniverse/classifier** | `packages/lib-classifier` | Classifier view components and state which can be exported modularly or altogether as a working classifier |
| **@zooniverse/fe-content-pages** | `packages/app-content-pages` | Server-side rendered application for documentation / info pages, such as Publications. |
| **@zooniverse/fe-project** | `packages/app-project` | Server-side rendered application for a project (anything at `/projects/owner/display_name`) |
| **@zooniverse/grommet-theme** | `packages/lib-grommet-theme` | The style definitions for a Zooniverse theme to use with Grommet |
| **@zooniverse/panoptes-js** | `packages/lib-panoptes-js` | Panoptes API javascript client. Functional HTTP request helpers built on top of superagent |
| **@zooniverse/react-components** | `packages/lib-react-components` | A set of Zooniverse-specific React components, built using Grommet |

## Conventions

### NPM

All packages built from this monorepo should be _scoped_ to `zooniverse`, e.g. `grommet-theme` becomes `@zooniverse/grommet-theme`.

### `packages` directory

Libraries for publishing to NPM should have their directory names prefixed with `lib-`, e.g. `/grommet-theme` becomes `/lib-grommet-theme`.

Apps should have their directory names prefixed with `app-`, e.g. `/project` becomes `/app-project`.

## Deployment

Deploys to production and staging are handled by [Jenkins](https://jenkins.zooniverse.org/job/Zooniverse%20GitHub/job/front-end-monorepo/) using [Docker images](#docker-images).

Deployments to a staging Kubernetes instance that uses Panoptes production are triggered by merges to master. This is used for manual end-to-end behavior testing for new code and design reviews. `https://frontend.preview.zooniverse.org/projects/:project-owner/:project-name/` proxy redirects to the new NextJS app while the rest of sub-domain redirects to PFE. Staging projects can be loaded by adding this query param to the URL: `?env=staging`.

Deployments to a production Kubernetes instance are triggered by committing a `production-release` git tag on master. This can either be done using the git CLI or using the lita deploy command on slack. `https://www.zooniverse.org/projects/:project-owner/:project-name/classify` proxy redirects to the new NextJS app while the rest of the domain redirects to PFE. Currently the only project that is configured to do this is Planet Hunters TESS. Eventually more projects will migrate when they migrate to the new classifier.

More information is available in [ADR 12](docs/arch/adr-12.md) and [ADR 17](docs/arch/adr-17.md)

### Environment variables

- `PANOPTES_ENV`: sets which Panoptes API endpoint to use.
  - `production` will use `https://www.zooniverse.org/api`
  - `staging` will use `https://panoptes-staging.zooniverse.org/api`.

The yarn build scripts default to production for libraries if `PANOPTES_ENV` is not specified. The apps are always built to the production API.
- `NODE_ENV`: the [webpack build mode](https://webpack.js.org/configuration/mode/) for libraries and the NextJS apps (production, development or undefined.)
- `APP_ENV`: the deployment environment, logged as the [Sentry environment](https://docs.sentry.io/product/sentry-basics/environments/) with errors:
  - `development`: local development on `localhost` or `local.zooniverse.org`.
  - `branch`: PR branch deploys on `fe-project-branch.preview.zooniverse.org`.
  - `staging`: staging on `frontend.preview.zooniverse.org`.
  - `production`: the Zooniverse web site, `www.zooniverse.org`.
- `CONTENTFUL_ACCESS_TOKEN`: access token for the Contentful API. Should be kept secret.
- `CONTENTFUL_SPACE_ID`: space ID for Zooniverse About pages in Contentful. Should be kept secret.
- `NEWRELIC_LICENSE_KEY`:  License key for New Relic logging. Should be kept secret.
- `COMMIT_ID`: the latest git commit hash. Used for versioning Sentry releases and recorded in classification metadata.

### Docker images

- `zooniverse/front-end-monorepo-staging`: Built from the Dockerfile in the root directory. It runs `yarn install` and builds all the libraries and apps from the latest main branch commit.
- `zooniverse/front-end-monorepo-production`: Built from the Dockerfile in the root directory. It runs `yarn install` and builds all the libraries and apps from the `production_release` tag.

### Publishing
When publishing an individual package to [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/), first cd into the repo you would like to deploy (within the packages folder), then:
1. Update changelog and commit
1. `yarn version --major|--minor|--patch --no-git-tag-version` (use the desired semvar here)
1. Update other packages to reference the newly updated package version
    - Ex: If updating lib-react-components to 1.0.0 from 0.7.2
    - lib-classifier should point to the new 1.0.0 version of lib-react-components
1. `git push origin name-of-branch`
1. Merge branch
1. Checkout master, pull for latest
1. Build the package with `yarn build` from the package dir, where available
1. Publish using `npm`:
    - Sanity check: if you're using `nvm` (Node Version Manager), make sure you've switched to the latest version of node/npm
    - Check that you're publishing the correct version by running `npm publish --dry-run` from the package dir
    - When you're happy, run `npm publish` from the package dir
    - You can optionally login to npm prior to this using `npm login` and store an auth token in a `.npmrc` file

---

## License

Copyright 2018 Zooniverse

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
