packages/lib-classifier/src/components/Classifier/components/SubjectViewer/components/Ztm2025GeoMapViewer/README.md, before:

# ZTM 2025 Experimental Geographical Map Viewer

This is an experimental Subject Viewer for viewing geographical map data.

Context:
- The Zooniverse Team believes there's interest from research teams to use maps
  (of planet Earth mostly, but we're not limited to the terrestrial) on the
  Zooniverse platform.
- We don't have this functionality yet, as of 2025.
- During the Zooniverse Team Meeting in August 2025, a rogue loose canon
  web developer who doesn't play by the rules decided to explore what can be
  done with web mapping technology, what options are available, and what
  challenges we need to be aware of when building a Geographical Map Viewer.
- This is it. You're looking at that experiment.

Notes:
- Our code sometimes uses the term GeoMap instead of Map to differentiate it
  from a JavaScript Map object.

## Dev Notes

**Safety and Scope**

The Ztm2025GeoMapViewer should ONLY be accessible on a very limited set of
projects, hand-picked by Zooniverse team.

Features & functionality are limited at best, wonky at worst. It's an
experiment.

**How to enable/use this experiment**

TODO

## Dev Journal (aka How's the Experiment Going?)

**August 2025: ZTM Hack**

- Ztm2025GeoMapViewer added.
  - OpenLayers version added.
  - Leaflet version added.
- ⚒️ Ongoing Experiment: what are the pros/cons of OpenLayers vs Leaflet?
- 🤔 Item of Interest: **projections**
  - Different maps can have different projections (i.e. how they represent the
    curved Earth on a 2D plane).
    - Traditional GPS coordinates use WGS84 (aka EPSG:4326).
    - Web apps like Google Maps use Web Mercator (EPSG:3857). 
      - For bonus confusion points, Web Mercator is actually a subset or variant
        of WGS84, so you'll also see Web Mercator called
        "WGS 84 / Pseudo-Mercator".
    - ⚠️ Coordinates based on different projections aren't compatible with one
      another! e.g. The University of Oxford's Denys Wilkinson Building has the
      coordinates 51.7595°N, 1.2595°W in traditional GPS, but in Web Mercator
      those same coordinates are x=-140206 y=6756756.
    - ❗️ It's incredibly important that we figure out what projections we use to
      (1) display maps to volunteers, and (2) collect coordinates (annotations)
      from classifications.
    - ❗️ Different research teams may be used to different coordinate systems.
      We require real life examples.
  - OpenLayers uses Web Mercator by default, but natively supports all sorts of
    projections. (It's super easy to get WGS84 working, though the map is
    visually stretched and looks kinda bad.)
  - Leaflet only supports Web Mercator. There are plugins that could solve this,
    but this requires exploration.

**Case Study: Planetary Response Network**

2025.08.15: Shaun & Brooke had a quick chat about how PRN uses maps on the
Zooniverse, and asked the question of, "if the GeoMapViewer wants to be useful
for the specific PRN use case, what does it need to address?"

- Map Tile Layers:
  - For disaster relief, we'll need to pull map tiles with (1) very recent data
    and (2) very high zoom (i.e. we want to see details in the _meter_ range.)
  - ❓ Question: where can we get access to this map data? Who'd provide it?
    - Would this be coming from a paid service, or hosted on a private server?
      Do we need to worry about archiving this data for future reference
      (e.g. for posts on Talk) ?
  - ⭐️ Useful feature: provide layers with "Before" and "After" data. Allow
    volunteers to examine/evaluate changes resulting from a disaster.
  - OpenStreetMaps might actually still be useful (if just a bit) so volunteers
    can compare the "official" map data and actual map photos. Might be worth
    adding a "map data doesn't match reality!" button for reporting, maybe.
- "Subject Data":
  - Most of the time we want to constrain/clamp volunteers to classifying on
    a specific area of the map, and prevent too much wandering around the larger
    map. (Dev note: we should be able to implement this.)
  - Conversely, it may sometimes be useful to allow volunteers to classify
    random parts of the map. (TODO: investigate cases for both.)
  - 🤔 Is allowing volunteers to choose which part of the map they look at,
    similar to letting volunteers choose their subject?
- Annotations & Classifying:
  - With PRN, the Subjects are such zoomed-in satellite images that getting
    exact GPS coordinates wasn't an issue. They took the lat/long of the image's
    corners and the x,y coordinates of annotations on the image, and extrapolated
    the GPS coordinates of the annotations from there. 
  - If we use the GeoMapViewer, we can actually get accurate GPS coordinates,
    so we SHOULD record those in annotations.
    - This means we devs need to figure out how to convert Web Mercator (x,y)
      coordinates to standard GSP (latitude, longitude) coordinates.
    - Storing exact GPS coordinates will also make it much easier to aggregate.

## End-Of-Experiment Plans (aka Adoption or Ejection)

Eventually, this experiment has to end with either formal adoption into the FEM
codebase, or ignoble ejection into the void.

When this decision has to be made: at most 1 year after this experiment is last
actively maintained.

If we choose to adopt:
- The README should be updated.
- The code in this folder should be reorganised and cleaned up.
- This folder (and its components) should be renamed to something that's not
  Ztm2025GeoMapViewer.

If we choose to eject:
- Delete this folder.
- Remove `leaflet` and `ol` (OpenLayers) from package.json (packages/lib-classifier/package.json)
  (assuming these aren't used anywhere else)
- Remove ztm2025geomap entry from `viewers` in getViewer.js (packages/lib-classifier/src/components/Classifier/components/SubjectViewer/helpers/getViewer/getViewer.js)
- Remove ztm2025geomap property from subjectViewers.js (packages/lib-classifier/src/helpers/subjectViewers/subjectViewers.js)
- Remove ztm2025geomap option from the subject_viewer & viewerType() lists in WorkflowConfiguration.js (packages/lib-classifier/src/store/WorkflowStore/Workflow/WorkflowConfiguration/WorkflowConfiguration.js)

Commit message:

Ztm2025GeoMapViewer: update README with regards to app-project being unable to build

packages/lib-classifier/src/components/Classifier/components/SubjectViewer/components/Ztm2025GeoMapViewer/README.md, after:

# ZTM 2025 Experimental Geographical Map Viewer

This is an experimental Subject Viewer for viewing geographical map data.

Context:
- The Zooniverse Team believes there's interest from research teams to use maps
  (of planet Earth mostly, but we're not limited to the terrestrial) on the
  Zooniverse platform.
- We don't have this functionality yet, as of 2025.
- During the Zooniverse Team Meeting in August 2025, a rogue loose canon
  web developer who doesn't play by the rules decided to explore what can be
  done with web mapping technology, what options are available, and what
  challenges we need to be aware of when building a Geographical Map Viewer.
- This is it. You're looking at that experiment.

Notes:
- Our code sometimes uses the term GeoMap instead of Map to differentiate it
  from a JavaScript Map object.

2025.08.15: ❗️⚠️☠️ the OpenLayers import kills `yarn build`... on the
_app-project_ project. This means this PR breaks `yarn bootstrap` 😬
- Error message when running `cd packages/app-project ; yarn build`
  is `Module not found: ESM packages (ol/Map.js) need to be imported. Use 'import' to reference the package instead. https://nextjs.org/docs/messages/import-esm-externals`
- `yarn build` and `yarn dev` both work fine in lib-classifier, and we are
  using imports.
- This makes me think that app-project is using the CommonJS version of
  lib-classifier.

## Dev Notes

**Safety and Scope**

The Ztm2025GeoMapViewer should ONLY be accessible on a very limited set of
projects, hand-picked by Zooniverse team.

Features & functionality are limited at best, wonky at worst. It's an
experiment.

**How to enable/use this experiment**

TODO

## Dev Journal (aka How's the Experiment Going?)

**August 2025: ZTM Hack**

- Ztm2025GeoMapViewer added.
  - OpenLayers version added.
  - Leaflet version added.
- ⚒️ Ongoing Experiment: what are the pros/cons of OpenLayers vs Leaflet?
- 🤔 Item of Interest: **projections**
  - Different maps can have different projections (i.e. how they represent the
    curved Earth on a 2D plane).
    - Traditional GPS coordinates use WGS84 (aka EPSG:4326).
    - Web apps like Google Maps use Web Mercator (EPSG:3857). 
      - For bonus confusion points, Web Mercator is actually a subset or variant
        of WGS84, so you'll also see Web Mercator called
        "WGS 84 / Pseudo-Mercator".
    - ⚠️ Coordinates based on different projections aren't compatible with one
      another! e.g. The University of Oxford's Denys Wilkinson Building has the
      coordinates 51.7595°N, 1.2595°W in traditional GPS, but in Web Mercator
      those same coordinates are x=-140206 y=6756756.
    - ❗️ It's incredibly important that we figure out what projections we use to
      (1) display maps to volunteers, and (2) collect coordinates (annotations)
      from classifications.
    - ❗️ Different research teams may be used to different coordinate systems.
      We require real life examples.
  - OpenLayers uses Web Mercator by default, but natively supports all sorts of
    projections. (It's super easy to get WGS84 working, though the map is
    visually stretched and looks kinda bad.)
  - Leaflet only supports Web Mercator. There are plugins that could solve this,
    but this requires exploration.

**Case Study: Planetary Response Network**

2025.08.15: Shaun & Brooke had a quick chat about how PRN uses maps on the
Zooniverse, and asked the question of, "if the GeoMapViewer wants to be useful
for the specific PRN use case, what does it need to address?"

- Map Tile Layers:
  - For disaster relief, we'll need to pull map tiles with (1) very recent data
    and (2) very high zoom (i.e. we want to see details in the _meter_ range.)
  - ❓ Question: where can we get access to this map data? Who'd provide it?
    - Would this be coming from a paid service, or hosted on a private server?
      Do we need to worry about archiving this data for future reference
      (e.g. for posts on Talk) ?
  - ⭐️ Useful feature: provide layers with "Before" and "After" data. Allow
    volunteers to examine/evaluate changes resulting from a disaster.
  - OpenStreetMaps might actually still be useful (if just a bit) so volunteers
    can compare the "official" map data and actual map photos. Might be worth
    adding a "map data doesn't match reality!" button for reporting, maybe.
- "Subject Data":
  - Most of the time we want to constrain/clamp volunteers to classifying on
    a specific area of the map, and prevent too much wandering around the larger
    map. (Dev note: we should be able to implement this.)
  - Conversely, it may sometimes be useful to allow volunteers to classify
    random parts of the map. (TODO: investigate cases for both.)
  - 🤔 Is allowing volunteers to choose which part of the map they look at,
    similar to letting volunteers choose their subject?
- Annotations & Classifying:
  - With PRN, the Subjects are such zoomed-in satellite images that getting
    exact GPS coordinates wasn't an issue. They took the lat/long of the image's
    corners and the x,y coordinates of annotations on the image, and extrapolated
    the GPS coordinates of the annotations from there. 
  - If we use the GeoMapViewer, we can actually get accurate GPS coordinates,
    so we SHOULD record those in annotations.
    - This means we devs need to figure out how to convert Web Mercator (x,y)
      coordinates to standard GSP (latitude, longitude) coordinates.
    - Storing exact GPS coordinates will also make it much easier to aggregate.

## End-Of-Experiment Plans (aka Adoption or Ejection)

Eventually, this experiment has to end with either formal adoption into the FEM
codebase, or ignoble ejection into the void.

When this decision has to be made: at most 1 year after this experiment is last
actively maintained.

If we choose to adopt:
- The README should be updated.
- The code in this folder should be reorganised and cleaned up.
- This folder (and its components) should be renamed to something that's not
  Ztm2025GeoMapViewer.

If we choose to eject:
- Delete this folder.
- Remove `leaflet` and `ol` (OpenLayers) from package.json (packages/lib-classifier/package.json)
  (assuming these aren't used anywhere else)
- Remove ztm2025geomap entry from `viewers` in getViewer.js (packages/lib-classifier/src/components/Classifier/components/SubjectViewer/helpers/getViewer/getViewer.js)
- Remove ztm2025geomap property from subjectViewers.js (packages/lib-classifier/src/helpers/subjectViewers/subjectViewers.js)
- Remove ztm2025geomap option from the subject_viewer & viewerType() lists in WorkflowConfiguration.js (packages/lib-classifier/src/store/WorkflowStore/Workflow/WorkflowConfiguration/WorkflowConfiguration.js)
