packages/lib-classifier/README.md, before:

# Zooniverse Classifier

A standalone library for the Zooniverse Project Classifier. The `Classifier` is comprised of three major pieces - the [SubjectViewer](/packages/lib-classifier/src/components/Classifier/components/SubjectViewer/README.md), the [Tasks](/packages/lib-classifier/src/plugins/tasks/README.md), and the [Store](/packages/lib-classifier/src/store/README.md).

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    Classifier-->SubjectViewer
    Classifier-->Tasks
    Classifier-->Store
```

- `SubjectViewer` is responsible for subject interaction and display
- `Tasks` are responsible for describing the type of data that the research team collects for a given `subject`. These get rendered in the `TaskArea` component.
- `Store` is responsible for managing the application state throughout the classification process. The store is initiated and setup within the `RootStore` file.

## Classifier Render Process

The render process starts with a [Layout](/packages/lib-classifier/src/components/Classifier/components/Layout/README.md) that determines which components get loaded. The components that are loaded within the `Layout` but aren't related directly to the `SubjectViewer`, `Tasks`, or `Store` are as follows:

- [Banners](/packages/lib-classifier/src/components/Classifier/components/Banners/README.md)
- Feedback
- [ImageToolbar](/packages/lib-classifier/src/components/Classifier/components/ImageToolbar/README.md)
- MetaTools
- [QuickTalk](/packages/lib-classifier/src/components/Classifier/components/QuickTalk/README.md)

```mermaid
flowchart TB
	Layout-->SubjectViewer
	Layout-->Tasks
	Layout-->ImageToolbar
	Layout-->Banners
	Layout-->Feedback
	Layout-->MetaTools
	Layout-->QuickTalk
```

## Classifier Hooks
[Hooks](/packages/lib-classifier/src/hooks/README.md) are a collection of utility functions for the `Classifier`.

## Tests

`yarn test` to run Vitest tests.

`yarn test FlipbookViewer.spec.jsx` to test one file at a time.

## Contributing

### Docker
- `docker-compose up` to run a server on http://localhost:8080 and the storybook on http://localhost:6006.
- `docker-compose down` to stop the container.
- `docker-compose run --rm dev test` to run the tests.

### Node/yarn
```sh
yarn dev
yarn storybook
```

Starts a development server on port 8080 and a Storybook on port 6006 by default.

Use `yarn dev` to run a small development environment app at `localhost:8080`. Specific staging projects and workflows can be loaded by query param `localhost:8080?project=1233&workflow=2367`

To add a local dependency, install it with yarn: `yarn add @zooniverse/package-name@X`. Note the `@X` - without a matching version number, yarn will attempt to find it in the npm registry.

The basic style of the classifier is to be modular. This means that each component should be small and more complex UI should be composed of these smaller components. State that needs to be shared between components or data from asynchronous HTTP requests should be stored in a mobx-state-tree model. Components that need access to this data should be wrapped by a container component that is connected to the stores, then render a child component view. Each component should be unit tested.

d3.js should only be used for the interactive subject viewer visualizations and be wrapped by a container React component. Classifier state including subject and annotation state should not be stored by d3.

## Technologies

  - @zooniverse/grommet-theme - Zooniverse's Grommet theme
  - @zooniverse/panoptes-js - Panoptes API javascript client
  - [Grommet](https://v2.grommet.io/components) - React UI component library
  - [mobx-state-tree](https://github.com/mobxjs/mobx-state-tree/) - App state built on MobX
  - [mobx-react](https://github.com/mobxjs/mobx-react) - Mobx React bindings
  - [d3.js](https://d3js.org/) - For interactive subject viewer visualizations
  - [React.js](https://reactjs.org/)  - Component, virtual DOM based javascript library
  - [styled-components](https://www.styled-components.com/) - CSS in JS styling library.

    Testing uses:

  - [Vitest](https://vitest.dev)
  - [React Testing Library](https://testing-library.com)
  - [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org)

Commit message:

Replace Yarn with pnpm (#7078)
* Use pnpm to bootstrap

* Use pnpm in CI

* Add pnpm/action-setup

* run test:ci with pnpm instead of lerna

* Refactor docker files to use pnpm

* edit PR template

* add --ignore-scripts back to the CI actions

packages/lib-classifier/README.md, after:

# Zooniverse Classifier

A standalone library for the Zooniverse Project Classifier. The `Classifier` is comprised of three major pieces - the [SubjectViewer](/packages/lib-classifier/src/components/Classifier/components/SubjectViewer/README.md), the [Tasks](/packages/lib-classifier/src/plugins/tasks/README.md), and the [Store](/packages/lib-classifier/src/store/README.md).

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    Classifier-->SubjectViewer
    Classifier-->Tasks
    Classifier-->Store
```

- `SubjectViewer` is responsible for subject interaction and display
- `Tasks` are responsible for describing the type of data that the research team collects for a given `subject`. These get rendered in the `TaskArea` component.
- `Store` is responsible for managing the application state throughout the classification process. The store is initiated and setup within the `RootStore` file.

## Classifier Render Process

The render process starts with a [Layout](/packages/lib-classifier/src/components/Classifier/components/Layout/README.md) that determines which components get loaded. The components that are loaded within the `Layout` but aren't related directly to the `SubjectViewer`, `Tasks`, or `Store` are as follows:

- [Banners](/packages/lib-classifier/src/components/Classifier/components/Banners/README.md)
- Feedback
- [ImageToolbar](/packages/lib-classifier/src/components/Classifier/components/ImageToolbar/README.md)
- MetaTools
- [QuickTalk](/packages/lib-classifier/src/components/Classifier/components/QuickTalk/README.md)

```mermaid
flowchart TB
	Layout-->SubjectViewer
	Layout-->Tasks
	Layout-->ImageToolbar
	Layout-->Banners
	Layout-->Feedback
	Layout-->MetaTools
	Layout-->QuickTalk
```

## Classifier Hooks
[Hooks](/packages/lib-classifier/src/hooks/README.md) are a collection of utility functions for the `Classifier`.

## Tests

`pnpm test` to run Vitest tests.

`pnpm test FlipbookViewer.spec.jsx` to test one file at a time.

## Contributing

### Docker
- `docker compose up` to run a server on https://localhost:8080 and the storybook on http://localhost:6006.
- `docker compose down` to stop the container.

### Node/pnpm
```sh
pnpm dev
pnpm storybook
```

Starts a development server on port 8080 and a Storybook on port 6006 by default.

Use `pnpm dev` to run a small development environment app at `localhost:8080`. Specific staging projects and workflows can be loaded by query param `localhost:8080?project=1233&workflow=2367`

To add a local dependency, install it with pnpm: `pnpm add @zooniverse/package-name@X`. Note the `@X` - without a matching version number, pnpm will attempt to find it in the npm registry.

The basic style of the classifier is to be modular. This means that each component should be small and more complex UI should be composed of these smaller components. State that needs to be shared between components or data from asynchronous HTTP requests should be stored in a mobx-state-tree model. Components that need access to this data should be wrapped by a container component that is connected to the stores, then render a child component view. Each component should be unit tested.

d3.js should only be used for the interactive subject viewer visualizations and be wrapped by a container React component. Classifier state including subject and annotation state should not be stored by d3.

## Technologies

  - @zooniverse/grommet-theme - Zooniverse's Grommet theme
  - @zooniverse/panoptes-js - Panoptes API javascript client
  - [Grommet](https://v2.grommet.io/components) - React UI component library
  - [mobx-state-tree](https://github.com/mobxjs/mobx-state-tree/) - App state built on MobX
  - [mobx-react](https://github.com/mobxjs/mobx-react) - Mobx React bindings
  - [d3.js](https://d3js.org/) - For interactive subject viewer visualizations
  - [React.js](https://reactjs.org/)  - Component, virtual DOM based javascript library
  - [styled-components](https://www.styled-components.com/) - CSS in JS styling library.

    Testing uses:

  - [Vitest](https://vitest.dev)
  - [React Testing Library](https://testing-library.com)
  - [Storybook](https://storybook.js.org)
