packages/lib-subject-viewers/README.md, before:

# Zooniverse Viewers

Viewer components used throughout the Zooniverse.

## Getting Started

Install the package from NPM:

```
npm i @zooniverse/subject-viewers
```

and use it

```
import { ProtoViewer } from '@zooniverse/subject-viewers';
```

## Run

`yarn run storybook` to run the storybook locally on (https://localhost:6007).

## Tests

`yarn test` to run mocha tests.

## Contributing

Components should be added to the `src/components` folder and an export to `src/index.js`. Each component should be tested, documented readme, and have a storybook example added.

### Technologies and tools we use

All of our components are written using React, built on top of Grommet, a component UI library, and styled by our custom Grommet style theme (@zooniverse/grommet-theme) and styled-components.

- [Grommet](https://v2.grommet.io/components) - React UI component library
- [React.js](https://reactjs.org/) - Component, virtual DOM based javascript library

Testing is done by

- [Mocha](https://mochajs.org/) - test runner
- [Chai](https://www.chaijs.com/) - BDD/TDD assertion library
- [Sinon](https://sinonjs.org) - test spies, mocks, and stubs

Commit message:

VV: Add VolumetricViewer to `lib-subject-viewers` (#6349)
- Add VolumetricViewer to lib-subject-viewers
- Add "data-testid" to all DOM elements we want to test for existence
- Add PropTypes to all Components based on linter output
- Add shims for Canvas, WebGL, and requestAnimationFrame for Cube rendering and testing
- Restructure VolumetricViewer directory to have all components, css, data, helpers, models, and tests in respective directories
- Specs for AlgorithmAStar
- Specs for ModelAnnotation
- Specs for ModelTool
- Specs for ModelViewer
- Specs for pointColor
- Specs for SortedSet
- Specs for VolumetricViewer that simply tests for existence in the DOM
- Write skeleton of a README
- Remove ProtoViewer. Clean up README. Fix Orbitals.
- Fix OrbitControls in the test:ci for GH
- Update yarn.lock
- Add instructions for M1 chips to lib-subject-viewers (#6385)

---------

Co-authored-by: Delilah C. <23665803+goplayoutside3@users.noreply.github.com>

packages/lib-subject-viewers/README.md, after:

# Zooniverse Viewers

Viewer components used throughout the Zooniverse.

## Getting Started

Install the package from NPM:

```
npm i @zooniverse/subject-viewers
```

and use it

```
import { VolumetricViewer } from '@zooniverse/subject-viewers';
```

## Run

`yarn run storybook` to run the storybook locally on (https://localhost:6007).

## Tests

`yarn test` to run mocha tests.

## Contributing

Components should be added to the `src/components` folder and an export to `src/index.js`. Each component should be tested, documented readme, and have a storybook example added.

## Technologies and tools we use

All of our components are written using React, built on top of Grommet, a component UI library, and styled by our custom Grommet style theme (@zooniverse/grommet-theme) and styled-components.

- [Grommet](https://v2.grommet.io/components) - React UI component library
- [React.js](https://reactjs.org/) - Component, virtual DOM based javascript library

Testing is done by

- [Mocha](https://mochajs.org/) - test runner
- [Chai](https://www.chaijs.com/) - BDD/TDD assertion library
- [Sinon](https://sinonjs.org) - test spies, mocks, and stubs

## Troubleshooting

The VolumetricViewer component uses `canvas`. If your Mac has a M1 or M2 chip, you'll likely need to do some manual `brew install` commands in order to bootstrap FEM: https://github.com/Automattic/node-canvas/issues/1511.
