packages/lib-panoptes-js/docs/CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

We welcome pull requests from anyone, so if you have something you'd like to contribute or an idea for improving this project, that's great! Changes should generally fit into one of the following categories:

- Bug fixes
- Implementing additional Panoptes API functionality (there's still a lot to do here!)
- Improvements/enhancements which will be generally useful to many people who use the API client.

If you're unsure about whether your changes would be suitable, please feel free to open an issue to discuss them before spending too much time implementing them. It's best to start talking about how (or if) you should do something early, before a lot of work goes into it.

## Getting Started

 This package should be cloned as part of the [front-end-monorepo](https://github.com/zooniverse/front-end-monorepo). The first thing you should do is fork this repo and clone your fork to your local computer. Then create a feature branch for your changes (create a separate branch for each separate contribution, don't lump unrelated changes together). 

 For any changes or new features, please include tests and make sure they are passing. Tests can be run by command line:

```
npm test
```

 When you're ready, push your changes to a branch in your fork and open a pull request.

## Conventions

This project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](http://semver.org/), and follows the changelog format set out at [Keep a CHANGELOG](http://keepachangelog.com/).


 ## Publishing

 TODO: write docs about publishing to NPM

Commit message:

add docs to lib-panoptes-js contributing docs

packages/lib-panoptes-js/docs/CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

We welcome pull requests from anyone, so if you have something you'd like to contribute or an idea for improving this project, that's great! Changes should generally fit into one of the following categories:

- Bug fixes
- Implementing additional Panoptes API functionality (there's still a lot to do here!)
- Improvements/enhancements which will be generally useful to many people who use the API client.

If you're unsure about whether your changes would be suitable, please feel free to open an issue to discuss them before spending too much time implementing them. It's best to start talking about how (or if) you should do something early, before a lot of work goes into it.

## Getting Started

 This package should be cloned as part of the [front-end-monorepo](https://github.com/zooniverse/front-end-monorepo). The first thing you should do is fork this repo and clone your fork to your local computer. Then create a feature branch for your changes (create a separate branch for each separate contribution, don't lump unrelated changes together). 

 For any changes or new features, please include tests and make sure they are passing. Tests can be run by command line:

```
npm test
```

 When you're ready, push your changes to a branch in your fork and open a pull request.

## Conventions

This project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](http://semver.org/), and follows the changelog format set out at [Keep a CHANGELOG](http://keepachangelog.com/).


 ## Publishing

Instructions on publishing to npm can be found [here](https://github.com/zooniverse/front-end-monorepo/README.md).
